---
author: martin
comments: true
date: 2020-10-19
layout: post
tags: post
draft: true
slug: course-notes-with-eleventy
title: Using eleventy to create a short-course website in Markdown
---

I'm re-writing some course notes, as I usually do at this time of year, and I'm trying to separate things up into small re-usable chunks, so that rather than building a comprehensive set of notes/videos/resources for an entire module, I create a range of small short-course type resources on different topics that can be built up for my module, or re-used by other people.

Previously, I've created websites for each of my modules by using a static site generator. This year, having fallen out of love with Hugo I thought I'd see about using 11ty.js for this.

There's some notable drawbacks in abandoning Hugo for 11ty as far as the 'quickly get a set of course notes up and running' goes. Chief among these is that as a 'young-ish' technology, 11ty is still maturing in the 'themes' department. Whereas there's a rich set of templates and themes for creating academic/instructional courses using tools like Hugo or Jekyll, there's not that much out there for 11ty, so rather than adapt an existing example (which tend to be more for portfolio sites or blogs) I figured I'd take this from scratch.

The approach I've taken looks a little something like this. This is still a Work in Progress, so I expect some of this will change as the semester goes on, but as a starting point I'm pretty happy with where I am.

## Contents

The contents of the notes are written in markdown. Nothing fancy here, just regular markdown. I don't tend to do anything too fancy as far as mathematics or diagramming is concerned, so a fairly simple set of markdown notes, arranged into section
